BCDR & Incident Response Computer Forensics and Crisis Management
Andrew Maddox
University of Advancing Technology

The practice of incident response in the modern security system of most companies has been well 
defined and sectioned into different areas which each help play a role during the process of incident response. 
As is important to keep up, define and understand these trends as they are changing constantly. It is important to keep up with how each 
area interacts with the other and how the flow of a complete incident response will play out. In this paper I will be exploring how a 
possible incident will be dealt with by each part of the process and diagram how this flows together to complete the incident response 
event as a whole.

While the term incident response is very widespread and known by many, what many people don't think about is the term for normal business 
operation after an incident which in the end, is the real goal for many. Incident response as a whole is a tool to reach that goal if 
anything undesirable is to happen. Business continuity is the term that describes this regular function after an incident occurs, 
therefore it is the first aspect of incident response that we should be aware of as it is our primary objective. Business continuity can 
be kept in many ways, through keeping backup servers that are run at a separate location, even having temporary servers that only come 
online in case of a complete system failure as a temporary stopgap for consumers is a way to keep some functionality during an incident 
even if the entire main infrastructure is to be knocked offline. Keeping your business’s function down for as little time as possible, or 
no time at all, is the end goal of business continuity. 

#Here is the start of a chart showing this normal flow of an incident response
#Not shown here but in the DOCX file.

Soon after a company can achieve business continuity, or if they are unable to, they will enter the crisis management phase of the 
incident response. Crisis management is when a company starts the process of returning services and operations to their normal state and 
informing consumers of the problem, generally following a predefined and known plan. Planning for crisis management after an incident is 
equally important as understanding the process of incident response. Without a proper plan incident response effort are many times harder 
than they should otherwise be, which has a negative impact upon the rest of the process leading to further problems and downtime which is 
very bad for a company already in crisis. 

#Updated chart including crisis management:
#Not shown here but in the DOCX file.

The next steps are where the crisis management plan of action will be put into effect, where the handling, recovery, and resolution 
steps will take place. These actions take place in what are known as the disaster recovery and computer forensics stages. In the disaster 
recovery stage, the goal is to reduce or negate any significantly negative effects of the incident. This includes preventing damage to 
infrastructure and their consumers data, as well as preventing large damage to the image of the company. This is essential for a smooth
return to normal operation after the incident has ended and is something which is usually a part of the crisis management plan which 
commonly has been pre-defined. The computer forensics stage is when workers will apply their investigative and analytical skills to 
gather evidence from computer. The next steps are where the crisis management plan of action will be put into effect, where the 
handling, recovery, and resolution steps will take place. These actions take place in what are known as the disaster recovery and 
computer forensics stages. In the disaster recovery stage, the goal is to reduce or negate any significantly negative effects of the 
incident. This includes preventing damage to infrastructure and their consumers data, as well as preventing large damage to the image 
of the company. This is essential for a smooth return to normal operation after the incident has ended and is something which is 
usually a part of the crisis management plan which commonly has been pre-defined. The computer forensics stage is when workers will 
apply their investigative and analytical skills to gather evidence from computer 

While these steps are presented in the flowchart in a certain order, it is important to understand that not every action will have the 
exact same set of steps. Many individuals and entities make large sums of money selling incident response plans so they might all 
differ slightly. Not only that the order may be different, but in more developed incident response systems each process is often 
happening simultaneously to resolve the incident as quickly as possible. While the way and order these processes are implemented in 
vary, it is still important to understand that they are the essential components to a strong incident response.

References
Module 1 lectures.
Luttgens, J. T., Pepe, M., & Mandia, K. (2014). Incident response and computer forensics. 
McGraw Hill.
6 Phases in the Incident Response Plan. (n.d.). Retrieved from 
https://www.securitymetrics.com/blog/6-phases-incident-response-plan
