Incident Reporting Systems
Andrew Maddox
University of Advancing Technology










It is important when choosing the incident response system for your company to have a well-educated decision. Therefore, it is important 
to analyze different programs and determine which offers the best value and services for your needs. Therefore, in this paper we will be 
analyzing two available incident reporting systems, Omnigo and CIP Reporting and comparing their strengths and weaknesses and what that 
might mean for a company looking to use them.

To begin we can start by looking at the reporting system Omnigo and what strengths, weaknesses, and what situations it is best suited to 
be used in. According to Omnigo’s website their system “enables your security team to track, report, and analyze data trends,” and by 
looking through many of their features their target audience is companies who have a physical location (Software, O). Their incident 
response service combines the management of physical security risks such as break-ins and guest management with more online related 
risks. It allows its users to create response plans in case of a security breach or risk is detected and helps the flow of fixing the 
security problem go smoothly by sending out information and instructions to the correct people. Omnigo does not say on its website that 
it supports cross-company communication, but it does, however, say it provides law enforcement communication tools. These tools include 
case management, criminal databases, investigation management, evidence management, and dispatching. 

So, what type of company would want to use Omnigo?  To start, a large part of what Omnigo offers is physical security reporting 
integration with cybersecurity reporting. This means that if your company is at risk for an incident that could include a physical 
component, like if you run a data center where physical access is a major danger, then this system offers a lot of useful tools for 
integrating those two security fields together with one tool. This also means, however, that if your company has no physical location 
or one that is not in need of robust physical security infrastructure, then Omnigo is most likely not the ideal reporting system. 
Another important piece of information is that Omingo’s website gives no indication that they have integrated cross-company support 
into the software, making it undesirable for a company that heavily relies on that type of integration. Though for those companies 
who do not need cross-communication it provides a robust interface to manage the law enforcement side of incidents, which is invaluable 
for smaller companies who may not have all of the resources themselves to do so.

Now that we have analyzed what types of companies would want to use Omnigo, what types of companies would want to use the other 
incident report system, CIP Reporting. The CIP Reporting focuses more on the cyber side of security incidents and allows for not only 
incident reporting but risk management as well. CIP Reporting’s website states that the service provides “customizable solutions for 
unique business requirements represented as documents, forms, and logs,” which are very useful features for keeping records during both 
an incident, as well as during normal operations (Risk Management). The reporting system also provides a way to structure your 
organization so if an incident occurs each member can be assigned a role in responding to the incident in an efficient and effective 
manner. Just like Omnigo however, the website does not mention cross-company communication capabilities, which again is something that 
could be a major negative when looking to use the CIP Reporting software.

Overall the CIP Reporting software provides many powerful tools with very few downsides. It is great for any company that is looking 
to approve their incident responsibilities by more efficiently executing incident response plans and assigning responsibilities faster. 
It also provides a robust framework for the company to manage reports as well as other documents including logs. This gives very 
powerful risk management capabilities as you are able to check logs as well as check them against past logs where an incident was 
imminent. These capabilities make this reporting system very useful for companies who might not want all of the physical report 
capabilities of Omnigo, but also desire robust risk management and incident reporting system.

In conclusion, each incident reporting system has both its upsides and its downsides. For example, if you are a company that values a 
powerful system which both manages your physical security incidents along with your cybersecurity incidents and provides robust law 
enforcement management, then Omnigo is the better choice for your company. While if your company values a well-managed and simple 
solution to assigning roles during an incident making responses quicker, then CIP Reporting would be your choice over Omnigo. While 
each system offers its own perks, they still don't offer everything, as neither seems to offer cross-company information sharing. 
This is why it is important to look at and test the system, if a demo is available, and make sure it fits the needs of your company 
before committing to using it. 
	










References
Risk Management. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.cipreporting.com/products/industries/risk_management
Software, O. (n.d.). Incident Reporting Software. Retrieved from https://www.omnigo.com/solutions/incident-reporting-software
